| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [data viz examples](dataviz-examples) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# The final data story
 [Click HERE to view my Final Presentation!](https://carnegiemellon.shorthandstories.com/RCOVersion1/index.html)

# Changes made since Part II
_The main change I decided to incorporate was integrating the feedback I received from my classmates, which I found really helpful in making my project's final product more complete and cohesive. The first thing I changed was to make my "call-out" states into actual visualizations using shorthand's callout stat template. Second, in my call-to-action section, I added more community resources specific to folks being able to connect/find out who their RCO is, and if not contact information of their council member so that they can write to their district's council member to support in the process to mobilize an already established community group that is a non-profit to apply for RCO designation and/or to help orgainzing a community group that can recieve the required non-profit designation necessary to qualify to become an RCO. I also added a link that explains the requirements for starting the RCO process. Lastly, I added more text/paragraphs to provide more context and understanding of the materials, to help guide someone who would be browsing my story on their own time, so that it is a standalone story, and a call to action can be understood clearly if they happen to be just by scrolling through it._

## The audience

_My goal in the end was to raise awareness of the benefits of Registered Community Organizations, to inform community members and administration/leadership from any community group about those benefits, and to learn how to apply. Additionally, one of my main goals is to highlight that about half of the City of Pittsburgh neighborhoods still lack an RCO, so that those community members and/or community groups can find out and can have a "one-stop shop" to know where to begin this process. This insight and the narrowing of what the story was and for whom it should be, thanks to my interviewers, my in-class critique team during in-class critique sessions, Part II feedback, and the feedback I received from my classmates after my presentation! The in-class presentation helped inform how to build my call-to-action section. Their interpretation of who they felt I was targeting made me realize that my audience can be any community member who  may see it and pique their curiosity about what RCO presence is in their neighborhood, to see whether they have that representation._

## Final design decisions 

_The main change I decided to incorporate was integrating the feedback I received from my classmates, which I found really helpful in making my project's final product more complete and cohesive. The first thing I changed was to make my "call-out" states into actual visualizations using one of shorthand's callout stat templates. Second, in my call-to-action section, I added more community resources specific to folks being able to connect/find out who their RCO is, and if not, contact information of their district’s council member so that they can write to them to advocate for their neighborhood in pushing the process to mobilize an already established community group that is a non-profit to apply for RCO designation and/or to help orgainzing a community group that can recieve the required non-profit status necessary to qualify to become an RCO. Additionally, I also added a link that explains the requirements for beginning the RCO process. Lastly, I added more text to provide further explanation and context so that it works as a standalone story. This will help guide someone browsing my story online to understand it and understand my call to action just by scrolling through it._

## Final thoughts and reflection of my final project

_Initially, I was really struggling in this project as a whole to really pinpoint my "why" and "what" my story actually was. I had the inspiration for the community organization that I have been interning for the past two academic years as a master's student (SHUC). However, it was difficult to flesh out, and I really do owe it to my in-class critique group, to the interviews with friends and family during this process, for helping me identify that I had no actual interesting story, to then be able to get to a point to build more of a story arc that can connect my RCO subject focus to a meaningful story. 

You can see my story develp and become more specific as you move from Part I to Part II, and now in Part III, again guided by the feedback I received from my classmates and feedback from the Part II assignment, which helped with condensing my visualizations , and understand what was working and what wasn't (and also acknowleding that if I wanted to I can incorporate other visualizations depicitng meaningful data that can be added to the main story if I want to higlight even further the importance  for those neighborhoods, that do not have that representation, and further emphasize that they are priorty in establishing their RCO. Specifically, including data visualization that depicts and compares median income across these neighborhoods and RCO presence or absence. Including these would further connect to my overall story and increase impact by raising awareness and creating access to resources. Kudos to one of my interviewers, who really helped me iterate on what my story ended up becoming and gave me specific ideas on how to better highlight what I should focus on in my map visualizations. They were the ones who noted that, visually, the neighborhoods without RCOs were not being highlighted, which was what I was focusing on when describing my “why” to them. Additionally, they helped me cut some of the earlier visualizations described in Part I that did not fit my story and would have simply taken up space. I was trying to make it fit to meet the data visualization criteria of this project, but was not intentional about whether it flowed with my story, and totally missed the “creating a story with data” piece of this class. This process really helped me identify the “so what” piece.

 In retrospect the experience this class was able to put me through, was a great reminder and mental exercise (from the creative side of my brain that had been neglected) of creativity and storytelling through means of art, and it being done in a quatitative way but only to complement not necessarily that data has to take the lead always, but how it can also be used like the elements of color by visually incorporating it in an asthetic and appealing way. So, shout out to this course on bringing that creativity out that I now realize I need to nurture and grow, thank you! Also, to my friend who was a key interviewer who helped me make intentional cuts and find the final story, you know who you are!_ 

## References
> **You should have already included detailed references on your Shorthand story** -
I had not fullyn included the references for each section,so those are updated but also I went ahead and added all final references I used in my final project, since there were some references I included in my Part I and Part II that I decided to cut and not use for my final product. 


## AI acknowledgements
For this assignment (the write-up piece) I use grammarly to help with my grammar and also, it suggests some rephrasing of some sentences so I went ahead and fixed either accepted those changes or reworded it differently but used that "flag" to make sure what I was saying was clear.


Text here!


